-----BEGIN VIGENERE KEY-----
DEGREE
-----END VIGENERE KEY-----

-----BEGIN DECODED TEXT-----
1000 Word Essay on Discipline 
 Discipline is probably one of the most mentioned word you heard while growing up. It 
 never gets old because discipline is required in all stages of life. Being disciplined sounds 
 like a very heavy thing but it is simply the act of obeying the rules set for you as a guide 
 for behaviour. Guides for behaviour are mostly used in schools and organizations. At 
 home, being disciplined is basically following the right thing and displaying acceptable 
 behaviour according to morals. Consequences of indiscipline at school and at home were 
 severe such that children opted to be in their best behaviour. Teachers have a hard task 
 in shaping the behaviour of children and they had to be "bad cops" every time in order to 
 ensure discipline of students. In professional lives, discipline and code of conduct for 
 employees is controlled by leaders and managers. It is really hectic when it comes to 
 discipline in adults because the forms of punishment as consequences of indiscipline are 
 hard to apply on people you respect especially those who are older than you. As a 
 manager, it is important that discipline is maintained. 
 Types of Discipline: 
 There are three types of discipline based on behaviour modification. These types of 
 discipline are aimed at correcting misbehavior. Misbehavior is any behaviour that is 
 inappropriate according to the guidelines for behaviour that are set for a specific area. 
 The first type of discipline is preventive discipline. This type of discipline focuses on 
 preventing certain type of behaviour from being displayed by the subjects. It actually 
 diverts them from misbehaving and cause improvements in that area. It has been used in 
 most schools to prevent absurd behaviour among students due to the restrictions put in 
 place by the guide for behaviour. 
 The other type is supportive discipline. This type of discipline is aimed at supporting the 
 virtues in an individual like self-control and it helps them get back on track easily. It is 
 supportive through provision of positive feedback to the subjects, showing interest in the 
 activities of the subjects and helping the subjects whenever they have difficulties so as to 
 encourage good behaviour. 
 The third type of discipline is corrective discipline. This discipline is involved with the 
 problem and deals with it directly. This type of discipline is known to be uncomfortable 
 and intimidating and so people try to avoid sing it. Despite the discomfort and intimidating 
 effects, it is a very effective type because the subject will have to go through the 
 consequences of their misbehavior. It has been used to cease disruptive behaviour 
 among students and its effectiveness has been realized. 
 Principles of Discipline Management: 
 Discipline is not just performed by anyone in whichever way they like, it should follow the 
 principles of discipline in order for it to be effective. Discipline should search for a balance 
 between finding disciplinary action and its long-term effects. As a parent or a teacher, it 
 is upon you to discipline your child but how you do it matters because the child may end 
 up having feelings of hate towards you, which leads to more inappropriate behaviour. The 
 reason why teachers tend to quit their jobs within the first years of practice is the lack of 
 finding a balance while controlling behaviour of a child. 
 Another principle is the use of affective approach in discipline. According to the theories 
 by Freud Sigmoid and Carl Rodgers, behaviour, implications of how adults discipline 
 children were felt differently and that is why an effective approach is preferred. 
 Behavioral approach to discipline is a principle that is vital in controlling behaviour. 
 According to a behaviorist theory by Skinner, there is classical conditioning and operant 
 conditioning, both aimed at controlling behaviour. Through positive and negative 
 reinforcements, behaviour can be corrected and that makes the disciplining act 
 successful. 
 Cognitive approach to discipline was developed due to the cognitive developmental 
 theories. Controlling behaviour is highly dependent on the cognition because thought 
 processes influence behaviour. Using the psychological approach to change someone's 
 thinking will result in change of behaviour. This approach works for all ages because 
 cognitive development is for all stages of life. 
 Challenges Facing Discipline Management: 
 Management of discipline is affected by factors which challenge the process. One factor 
 is the lack of effective communication. When the guide for behaviour has not clearly been 
 communicated to the subjects, incidences of misbehavior may be noted. It would be 
 inappropriate to discipline the subject because they had no idea it was a wrong thing to 
 do. In order for discipline to be effective, clear communication of the required behaviour 
 should be communicated. 
 Lack of respect to authority. As time goes by, we realize that respect diminishes especially 
 in schools. In the olden times, teachers received utmost respect from the students, some 
 were even feared. Nowadays, respect has deteriorated and most of the teachers are 
 young. Discipline management in situations where leaders are not respected is sort of 
 impossible. 
 Economic difficulties also contribute to ineffective discipline managements. Due to 
 increase in population, management of discipline is hard because misbehavior incidences 
 increase due to poverty and discipline management is compromised through these 
 economic hardships. 
 Disruptive behavior of the leader causes ineffective discipline management. Disruptive 
 behaviour of leaders is in the form of lack of interest in the activities of the subjects and 
 the lack of commitment in improving the behaviour of their subjects. Leadership and 
 management roles involve disciplining but that cannot be possible in situations where the 
 leaders and managers lack interest in their subordinates. Leaders and managers should 
 always take part in improving the behaviors of their subjects so that working with them 
 become easier. 
 Conclusion: 
 To conclude, discipline is actually the art of shaping behaviour. The management of 
 discipline requires specific regulations through principles to enhance its effectiveness. 
 The challenges facing discipline management are situational and can be avoided. As a 
 leader, the role of discipline should be under your control at all times in order to gain 
 respect from your subordinates.
-----END DECODED TEXT-----
